what is demand generation and how can
you drive sales from it
[Music]
hey i'm sam dunning co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com and host of the top 100
marketing podcast business growth show
if you haven't yet check out our weekly
email where we share actual marketing
tips
useful podcasts free guides bonus
resources and much much more every
monday to start your week off with a
bang sign up today over at business
growth dot email so what the heck is
demand generation well demand gen or
demand generation is a marketing
strategy that builds brand awareness
brand affinity
educates and positions
your company
as the go-to
for your industry or your sector so when
prospects when ideal customers need your
product or your service they believe you
are the only choice for what you need
through the demand that you've generated
so what are some examples of demand
generation well demand generation tends
to be a long term play so it's not
something where you can click your
fingers do one campaign and you'll get a
flood full of inbound sales leads and
revenue
so a few strategies on the demand gen
front might be starting your own podcast
so just like we do with business growth
show we interview experts and marketing
sectors and we also share solo episodes
just like this one on specific web and
marketing tips so long term i'm educate
educating prospects giving them free
advice
sharing best practices and giving new
ideas so hopefully
when you might need a website or seo
strategy you'll come to us at
webchoiceuk.com and much the same you
can do the same for your industry or
your brand long term to share useful
advice and become the go-to in your
sector so when people think of your
product or your service they think of
you so podcasting is one way another way
is especially in the b2b space utilizing
linkedin so again on linkedin it's a
great platform to network and connect
with professionals but the great thing
about it is the organic reach right now
so you can share a post once twice a day
giving perhaps insights answering common
questions giving useful tips
sharing video content or image content
so each day if you post consistently
about your sector your industry share
best practices tips useful knowledge
advice answer common questions
specifically on what you do
over time people gonna see you as a
reputable person a professional in your
space and eventually when they need your
product or your help people are likely
to reach out to you and get in touch
some other ways to build and create
demand could be by starting a youtube
channel so much like a podcast you could
share industry best practices you can
answer common questions that you get on
sales calls you can share new updates
around your services your products and
basically be a really useful resource
for the video content you can put out
you could start a group so wherever your
idle customers hang out maybe that's a
facebook group maybe that's a linkedin
group maybe that's a slack channel
whereby you're inviting idle prospects
you're answering their questions you're
building this community where you're
really sharing helpful ideas and people
in the community are chatting as well
and you're answering their questions
you're building up super building like a
support network for your industry and
you're also building up your own
reputation at the same time or you could
do a live zoom so maybe you run a weekly
live zoom where you invite anyone that's
interested in learning about your sector
and you open the floor so you answer
their questions perhaps you share recent
news perhaps you share your own ideas
and you're having a back and forth
answering questions providing your own
valuable ideas and over time again
you're giving free advice you're
building up that you're a trusted person
you're a trusted company for what you
offer and over time that is going to
build up demand for what you provide so
what is the end game of demand
generation well the end game typically
is that you've given so much value
you've educated your prospects so much
you've been such a helpful
person or business organization that
when they eventually need your product
or your service your offering they go
straight to you so perhaps they just you
search and search for your company brand
or they go straight to your website or
maybe they message you on the platform
they're on and they go directly to you
with really high intent to organize a
sales call or to buy your product or
your service so demand generation tends
to be a medium to long term play
but
what about capturing existing demands so
there's people out there that say you
should just focus on demand gen run that
as a medium to long term play and grow
your business that way as people will
know your brand they'll believe you can
help them and they'll come direct to you
rather than comparing you to other
companies
but if you want to go to market quite
quickly if you want to drive inbound
leads in revenue pretty fast i recommend
utilizing existing demand so this means
people don't know your company already
but they might be searching on google
for the product or service you offer so
maybe you offer accountancy software and
they're searching best accountancy
software or accountancy software
provider and then you show up either on
organic search through your seo work or
maybe you show up on the ads with google
ads and then maybe they visit your
website you re-target them with facebook
ads or linkedin
such but we're talking about capturing
demand that's already there
without demand gen
so people come to your site and get in
touch with you to discuss a potential
product or get a demo whatever that next
step is now
i personally believe that you should
look at both
so running seo running ads to capture
the demand that's already there where
people don't know your brand but you're
relying on the fact that you can help
them you can have a conversation with
them and work that lead into a deal as
that's quite a fast route to market if
you unpaid ads and then seo can be a
more medium longer term play on
capturing that existing demand
and likewise
if you've got the resources
then you can also run demand gen
alongside it so you can build up
reputation in your space you can educate
prospects you can build brand affinity
through things like podcasting building
community
posting on linkedin so long term you're
building up that reputation you're
getting customers come direct to you and
at the same time you're capturing
existing demand for people that don't
know your brand but need your product or
service and there you have it hopefully
this definition of what demand
generation actually means and the
difference between command gen and
capturing existing demand has been of
use as always if you enjoyed today's
show i'd really appreciate a quick
rating on your podcast channel or if
you're tuning on youtube a subscribe i'd
be very thankful for and with that i
should catch you on the next episode
cheers